Halloween Kills is finally coming to theaters and
it's a sequel to both the 1978 original Halloween
and the 2018 Halloween of the same name.
So if you need a quick recap of everything
that happened in Halloween 1978 and Halloween
2018 to get you prepared for Halloween Kills,
well then don't worry, this
video has you covered. This
is everything you need to know
before seeing Halloween Kills.
The original Halloween from 1978 starts
back in 1963 when a six year old Michael
Myers stabs his older sister to death
after she has sex with her boyfriend.
Cut to 1978 and an adult Michael Myers has
broken out of Smith’s Grove Sanitarium,
just as his psychiatrist Dr. Samuel Loomis
and Loomis’ assistant, Marion Chambers,
arrive to transport him to a court hearing that
would potentially keep Michael locked up for good.
On Michael’s way to his hometown of Haddonfield,
he kills a mechanic and steals his signature
coveralls, and steals his infamous mask and knives
from a hardware store. As Michael’s psychiatrist
Dr. Samuel Loomis teams up with Sheriff Brackett
to hunt him down to lock back up forever,
Michael begins stalking high school student Laurie
Strode after seeing her at his childhood home.
On Halloween night, Laurie is babysitting
Tommy Doyle, a young outcast picked on by
other kids at school, like the bully Lonnie
Elam. Across the street, Laurie’s friend Annie,
the sheriff’s daughter, babysits Lindsay Wallace.
Eventually, Annie drops Lindsay off with Laurie
so she can go have sex with her boyfriend Paul.
Annnnd that’s when Michael kills Annie. Later that
night, Laurie and Annie’s friend Lynda and her
boyfriend Bob arrive at the Wallace house and,
after finding it empty, decide to have sex. Annnnd
that’s when Michael shows up and kills them too.
Moral of the story? Never have sex in
the general vicinity of Michael Myers.
Eventually, Laurie goes over to the Wallace
house to investigate and finds the bodies of
her friends, and is then chased by Michael back
over to the Doyle house. Laurie helps Tommy and
Lindsay escape to call the police for help, and
then begins her violent confrontation with Michael
Myers. Laurie manages to stab Michael multiple
times before Dr. Loomis finally arrives to finish
him off with some gunshots to the chest. Michael
appears to fall off the balcony to his death,
but when Loomis and Laurie go to check, they
discover that Michael Myers has disappeared.
The story continues in the 2018 version
of Halloween, where Michael Myers has
been re-institutionalized at Smith’s Grove
for the past 40 years. After an attempted
interview by two true crime podcasters, Michael
manages to escape and tracks the podcasters,
killing them and stealing back his infamous mask
before once again heading back to Haddonfield.
In the 40 years since her
encounter with Michael Myers,
Laurie is still living in intense fear. She
lives in seclusion in a heavily fortified house
and has little relationship with her adult
daughter, Karen, who the state took from
Laurie’s care when she was 12. Her only real human
connection is her teenage granddaughter, Allyson.
Upon hearing that Michael has
escaped, Deputy Frank Hawkins,
who we learn is the officer that arrested Michael
in 1978 after his confrontation with Laurie,
tries to warn Sheriff Barker about the killer’s
imminent return, but the sheriff brushes him off.
When Laurie hears of Michael’s escape,
she tries to warn her daughter, Karen,
but is similarly brushed off.
At a Halloween night costume party, Allyson
discovers that her boyfriend Cameron,
son of the original film’s school bully Lonnie,
is cheating on her. Hurt, Allyson leaves the
party with Cameron’s friend Oscar. Meanwhile,
Allyson’s best friend Vicky and her boyfriend
Dave are attacked and killed by Michael
while babysitting a young boy named Julian.
Laurie and Hawkins are separately on Michael’s
trail, and Laurie’s first confrontation with
the killer in 40 years ends with her shooting
Myers in the shoulder before he can escape.
Walking home from the party, Allyson
and Oscar are attacked by Michael.
Oscar is killed, but Allyson is saved by Hawkins
and Michael’s newest psychiatrist Dr. Sartain.
Hawkins tries to kill Michael, but Sartain
attacks him and leaves him for dead,
revealing that he’s become obsessed
with Michael and helped orchestrate
his escape to study him in the wild.
This immediately backfires on Sartain,
who is swiftly killed by Michael. During this
chaos, Allyson manages to flee from the scene.
Laurie, Karen, and Karen’s husband Ray all arrive
at Laurie’s fortified home to protect themselves.
When Michael arrives at the house in a stolen
cop car, Ray goes outside to speak with who he
thinks are the police. Michael reveals himself
and strangles Ray to death. Laurie makes sure
Karen is tucked away safely and then prepares for
her showdown with Michael Myers. They trade blows,
and Michael ends up stabbing Laurie and pushing
her over a balcony. When Michael looks down at
her body, he sees that it’s missing. A nice
reversal of the ending of the original film!
When Allyson arrives at Laurie’s home, the
three generations of Strode women team up
to fight Michael, shooting him and locking
him up in the basement before setting the
entire house ablaze. As Karen and Allyson
rush a stabbed Laurie to the hospital,
the Strode house continues to burn with
a still breathing Michael trapped inside.
And that's everything that happened
in Halloween 1978 and 2018. Let me
know some of your favorite moments from the
Halloween franchise in the comments below.
Like this video if you found it helpful, subscribe
to this channel for more content like this
and that does it for me in this one
but i'll see you in the next one